If you're using Superbase, chances are
you are already using Superbase Auth.
Every single app out there pretty much
needs Auth, but do you know what Auth
means? Did you know that you could use
Superbase Auth with non-Superbase
services? Do you know all the
authentication methods available to
Superbase? I'll be covering all these in
this getting started with Superbase Auth
video.
And what is this name tag doing around
my neck?
Before we dive into anything specific to
Superbase Auth, let's talk about Auth in
general. Auth has two components.
Authentication and authorization.
Authentication is the process of
verifying who the user is. It's like
when you go to a tech conference, you
fill out a form to get your ID badge,
right?
That's authentication, the process of
obtaining your ID badge.
And authorization is the process of
verifying that the user is who they
claim to be.
This is like tapping your ID badge at
the entrance gate, or the security guard
taking a look at your photo to make sure
you look like the person on this ID
badge.
So, let's take a look at what that looks
like with Superbase.
Now, I want to show you one cool thing
about Superbase, and that's where we
store Auth-related information. So, I've
gone into the table editor.
And in here, we have a Auth schema. And
this is where all the Auth-related
information
regarding this project is stored, and we
don't hide anything behind the scenes.
It's all stored on the Postgres database
that comes with your project. And that
means you have full control over any
Auth-related data, making migrating in
and out of Superbase Auth very easy.
So, I have this simple web app that
performs a sign-in, and when the user
signs in, we are console logging the
session data.
So, let's go ahead and log in from this
web app.
And upon pressing sign-in,
we get the session and the console log.
Now, the session has various information
like the user IDs or user information.
But, what we want to see is this access
token, and this is a standard JWT or
JSON web token, and we can decode it by
heading over to jwt.io.
For those who don't know what JWTs are,
they're essentially just a piece of
encoded string that contains user
information like user IDs or email
addresses that can be used on the
server-side to verify who the user is.
What's nice about these tokens is that
any server can easily verify that the
token was generated by a trusted party
like Superbase. I've pasted in my access
token, and in the header, we have the
information we have the information like
what algorithm is used to sign this
token. And then in the body, we have the
main information like user information,
the user ID,
uh the email address, whether the user
is verified, and whatnot. And at the
very bottom section, we can view the
public key that was used to sign this
JWT, and we can head over to our
Superbase project, go to the settings
and JWT keys, and view the public key
that was used to sign our JWT token, and
we can verify that these two matches by,
I don't know, like copying and pasting
and make sure it matches. Let's say we
have an app, and we have the Superbase
Auth. Now, the app makes a sign-in
request to Superbase Auth using the
client library.
Now, Superbase Auth says, "Okay, got it.
We can verify that the user is legit,
the password is legit. We'll issue a
JWT."
Now, the app can take this JWT and make
requests to other Superbase services
like the data API or Superbase storage.
Every time these requests are made, the
JWT is always attached to the request
header. What's nice is that since
Superbase just uses standard JWT, its
usage is not limited to just Superbase
services. For example, if you have your
own back-end, you can totally get the
JWT from Superbase Auth and send it
along with a request to your own
back-end, and you can easily decode this
JWT using a standard library of your
choice, and verify that the request does
contain a legitimate JWT signed by
Superbase. So, that's how our
authentication works with Superbase in a
nutshell. Now, let's take a look at
various authentication methods that
Superbase offers. The first one is
standard email plus password. You can
create a new user by calling the
auth.sign up method and passing the
email and password. You can sign in as
an existing user by calling the sign-in
with password method, passing the email
and password.
And of course, Superbase has countless
options for various social logins. I
counted actually, and we have 20
different options. You can just call
sign-in with OAuth to complete your
sign-in process.
And my favorite, sign-in anonymously.
This essentially is kind of like
continuous guest, where your app can
just in the background or when the user
presses a continuous guest button, for
example, you can just sign them in. And
this essentially just generates a JWT,
and that gets stored on your device,
kind of like standard authentication, no
difference there. But, the difference is
that you can provide a seamless
experience to your users while not
compromising security.
If you're working on an e-commerce
application, you could just sign the
user in anonymously when they first land
on your website, and then keep track of
their shopping cart, and then when they
are ready to check out, they can either
make the decision of upgrading to a
regular user or just staying as an
anonymous user and still get the full
experience.
When you want to upgrade existing
anonymous user to a social login user,
you could just call the link identity
method.
If you want to upgrade them to an email
plus password user, you can call the
update user method to first set a email
address. This is going to send a
verification email to their email
address. And once they have verified
their email address, you can call the
update user method again, this time
setting a password. I also want to
mention that Superbase does support MFA
as well as SAML login for more
enterprise use cases as well.
Now, that was a lot, but remember, all
these authentication methods, all
they're doing is obtaining a JSON web
token from Superbase Auth. And what
happens after they obtain a JSON web
token is all the same.
Let's now talk about authorization.
So, I'm in this policy creation page
within the Superbase dashboard, and I'll
be talking about row-level security
policies because that's how Superbase
does authorization. But, that's not the
only way. As we looked earlier, you can
just have your own regular server and
use a regular JWT verification methods
to authorize a user.
But, with row-level security policies,
there are four types of policies.
There's select, insert, update, delete,
and I lied, there's five, there's all as
well. But, it's best not to use all.
Let's just stick with select, insert,
update, and delete because you have more
granular control of how your users
should be accessing your service.
Now, as I create my row-level security
policy, we could do something like uh
select auth.uid
is equal to
user ID column from the table.
Now, if I'm selecting the select
statement, we notice that this whole
statement is
wrapped around a using statement. Now,
if I go to insert, it changes to with
check, and update, there's two
conditions, there's using and with
check, and delete, there's using.
The way I typically think about this is
using is to compare the condition
against existing data, and then with
check is to compare the condition
against future data after the change has
happened, if it were to happen. But,
otherwise, all these statements are
pretty similar in a way that this
statement where it compares the
authentication user ID against the
existing user ID column can be used in a
select policy or insert policy or update
policy,
understanding that uh what you want to
do is limit the insert for user, whereas
if you're creating a select policy,
you're limiting the select ability um of
the of the data of the table.
But, with that in mind, let's look at
some typically used row-level security
policy examples. For a basic use case, I
think there are three example policies
that we could talk about. The first one
is just true. This should pretty much
only be used for a select statement, but
it's used when your data can be just
publicly available and can be viewed by
anybody.
And the second example is comparing the
auth.uid against the existing user ID
column. So, if you have a user ID column
in your table,
and you want to make sure that only the
owner of those columns can view the
data,
then you can set a policy like this. Of
course, you can change this policy from
a select policy to insert or update or
delete policy to enforce the same thing
against various actions.
Now, the third example is this um
group ID, team ID, company ID type of
format, where a group of people is
allowed to take an action against the
database.
In this setup, we need three tables. We
have a post table, and this post table
has a team ID column. And let's say we
have this team situation, and those team
can view their own data. Now, we need a
teams table. This teams table basically
holds the information about what teams
they are. We have a fire, water, and
leaf team with uh their ID.
And then we have a team user table. So,
this table holds information of what
user is a part of what team. Let's say
my user ID is this 96021.
Then you can say that I am part of team
one. And if you remember what team one
was, team one is the fire team.
Because I'm part of team one, I can view
the post that are assigned to team one.
And one thing I want to note is although
row-level security policies do act as
filters, ideally, you want to add the
filter that the row-level security
policy will enforce anyway. So, in an
example like this, you want to append a
EQ filter restricting the team ID to be
one.
This makes Postgres more efficient, and
you get a free performance boost. And
that's how you can get started with
Supabase auth. Let me know in the
comments which Supabase product I should
cover next in the upcoming getting
started with Supabase series.